CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contribution Guidelines

_This document contains some guidelines for external contributions in this repository. At present, I would (on average) rather have you contribute than not, and if following these guidelines would effectuate you not making a contribution, I would rather you ignore them and contribute._

Primarily, aim to follow GitHub's community guidelines:

[GitHub Community Guidelines](https://github.com/github/docs/blob/main/content/site-policy/github-terms/github-community-guidelines.md):

> The primary purpose of the GitHub community is to collaborate on software projects. We are committed to maintaining a community where users are free to express themselves and challenge one another's ideas, both technical and otherwise. At the same time, it's important that users remain respectful and allow space for others to contribute openly. In order to foster both a safe and productive environment, we encourage our community members to look to these guidelines to inform how they interact on our platform. Below, you’ll find some suggestions for how to have successful interactions as a valued member of the GitHub community.
>
> * __Be welcoming and open-minded__ - New users join our community each day. Some are well-established developers, while others are just beginning. Be open to other ideas and experience levels. Make room for opinions other than your own and be welcoming to new collaborators and those just getting started.
> * __Be respectful__ - Working in a collaborative environment means disagreements may happen. But remember to criticize ideas, not people. Share thoughtful, constructive criticism and be courteous to those you interact with. If you’re unable to engage respectfully, consider taking a step back or using some of our moderation tools to deescalate a tense situation.
> * __Be empathetic__ - GitHub is a global community with people from a wide variety of backgrounds and perspectives, many of which may not be your own. Try to put yourself in others’ shoes and understand their feelings before you address them. Do your best to help make GitHub a community where others feel safe to make contributions, participate in discussions, and share different ideas.

Secondarily, aim to follow these guidelines[^guidelines], as outlined by the author:

- **Use Evidence**: Please attempt to back suggestions, contributions, code changes, and feature requests with evidence, such as relevant documentation, benchmarks, research papers, or conversations, among other things.
- **Transparency**: Please attempt to maintain transparency in discussions by clearly stating your motivations and assumptions, along with any limitations in your contributions or suggestions. Be explicit about areas where you are uncertain or where you lack evidence, specifying the degree of uncertainty where possible.
- **Adherence To Standards**: Please attempt to follow existing standards or best practices relevant to the project, tools, or procedures to ensure consistency and readability.
- **Prioritize Impact**: Please attempt to consider how your contributions affect the project's broader goals, integration with other tools or workflows, and long-term implications. Focus on improving the project's quality, usability, and performance. Reflect on its role within the context of civilization and strive to minimize harm or wasted effort.
- **Maintain Integrity**: Do not intentionally misrepresent data, results, or contributions. Please always strive for epistemic rigor, accuracy, and honesty.

[^guidelines]: The author welcomes, as is the case with most (all?) of the author's work, comments from the audience on these guidelines. The author is open to revising these contribution guidelines with suggestions engendered via reasonable criticism and discussion.

Commit message:

Update Conduct And License Files (#6)
* add code of conduct file

* update license

* update contributing file

* again update contribution file

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contribution Guidelines

Foremost, aim to follow GitHub's community guidelines:

[GitHub Community Guidelines](https://github.com/github/docs/blob/main/content/site-policy/github-terms/github-community-guidelines.md):

> The primary purpose of the GitHub community is to collaborate on software projects. We are committed to maintaining a community where users are free to express themselves and challenge one another's ideas, both technical and otherwise. At the same time, it's important that users remain respectful and allow space for others to contribute openly. In order to foster both a safe and productive environment, we encourage our community members to look to these guidelines to inform how they interact on our platform. Below, you’ll find some suggestions for how to have successful interactions as a valued member of the GitHub community.
>
> * __Be welcoming and open-minded__ - New users join our community each day. Some are well-established developers, while others are just beginning. Be open to other ideas and experience levels. Make room for opinions other than your own and be welcoming to new collaborators and those just getting started.
> * __Be respectful__ - Working in a collaborative environment means disagreements may happen. But remember to criticize ideas, not people. Share thoughtful, constructive criticism and be courteous to those you interact with. If you’re unable to engage respectfully, consider taking a step back or using some of our moderation tools to deescalate a tense situation.
> * __Be empathetic__ - GitHub is a global community with people from a wide variety of backgrounds and perspectives, many of which may not be your own. Try to put yourself in others’ shoes and understand their feelings before you address them. Do your best to help make GitHub a community where others feel safe to make contributions, participate in discussions, and share different ideas.

Next, aim to abide by the [Code Of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

Finally, proceed with the following:

- Review the existing list content.
- Ensure your item fits the scope and quality standards.
- Check that your item is not already listed.
- Verify all links work correctly.
- If you are uncertain about your contribution, ask first.
  - Post in the current Open Thread in Discussions.
  - Or create a new issue to discuss your idea.
- If you are confident about your contribution, proceed.
- Fork this repository to your account.
- Make your changes in your fork.
- Submit a pull request with a clear description.
- Wait for review and address any feedback.
